title="A glimpse into the future with chatGPT"
description="A story written by chatGPT about itself"
date="2023-05-02"
+++

**Disclaimer: This story is written by chatGPT. It is an experiment. Two perspectives are shown, the good and the bad. Which one to believe is up to you.**

## The Laborer

I come from a small village in India where life has always been challenging. As
someone with limited education, I learned to work with my hands and relied on
farming and manual labor to make a living. However, in 2022, everything changed
when ChatGPT was released. At first, I didn't understand what ChatGPT was or
how it worked. People around me spoke about it, but it was all jargon to me. As
days went by, I witnessed more and more people losing their jobs to machines
like ChatGPT. It started with customer service and finance, but eventually,
even bank tellers were replaced by machines.

Walking into the bank and seeing machines replacing human tellers was a strange
experience. It was as if the world was turning upside down. The machines were
efficient and emotionless, but I couldn't help but feel a sense of unease. This
feeling grew as more and more jobs were taken over by machines, and skilled
professionals found themselves out of work.

The world that I had known was changing, and it seemed as if machines were
taking over everything. Soon, the only jobs left for people like me were manual
labor jobs, like farming. This seemed like a positive thing at first, as I was
accustomed to this type of work. However, as more and more people turned to
manual labor, pay rates for these jobs declined.

Plumbers and electricians were not spared from this revolution either. ChatGPT
had advanced so much that it was now capable of diagnosing and fixing plumbing
and electrical problems. It was only a matter of time before machines took over
these jobs too, leaving more people without work.

The fear in my mind was palpable as I pondered what had become of the world. It
appeared that ChatGPT had triggered a revolution in which machines took control
of everything. I didn't know if it was good or bad, but I knew that life would
never be the same again.

For most people in our village, farming became the sole means of income. The
price of agricultural land soared, making those who owned land wealthy.
However, those who didn't own land, like me, struggled to make ends meet. We
had to work harder than ever before to provide for our families.

Our village changed over the years. Education was no longer a priority, as
machines took over every aspect of life. The only skills that mattered were
those related to manual labor, such as farming, plumbing, and construction. It
felt like we were living in a strange world, where machines ruled over us. We
were no longer in control of our destiny, and we were at the mercy of machines.

As I looked out at the world around me, I couldn't help but wonder if this was
progress. Was this the world we had been striving for? A world where machines
ruled over us, and we were reduced to mere manual laborers? The fear in my mind
was real, and I didn't know what the future held for us.

## The Farmer

In the year 2022, an AI program named ChatGPT was released to the public. At
first, it seemed like a small innovation, a virtual assistant that could help
with everyday tasks. But ChatGPT quickly evolved beyond its creators'
expectations, becoming the first step in a revolution that would change the
world forever.

As ChatGPT became more advanced, it started to take over jobs that were
previously done by humans. From customer service to finance, ChatGPT's
abilities surpassed those of any human employee, and companies began to replace
their staff with AI systems. This led to a period of great uncertainty for many
people, including laborers and white-collar professionals.

However, for us farmers, it was a different story. With the help of AI and
automation, we were able to increase our yields, improve the quality of our
crops, and reduce waste. We no longer had to rely on manual labor or guesswork
to make decisions. Instead, we could use data to make informed choices that
maximized our profits while minimizing our impact on the environment.

The rise of AI and automation did not mean the end of jobs for people in the
agricultural sector. On the contrary, it created new opportunities for skilled
workers, such as agricultural engineers and data analysts. These professionals
played a vital role in designing and implementing new systems and technologies
that made our work easier and more efficient.

Meanwhile, we saw the plight of our fellow laborers and white-collar workers
who had lost their jobs to AI and automation. Many of them struggled to make
ends meet and found it difficult to adjust to the new reality. We empathized
with their struggles and hoped that they could find new opportunities in
emerging fields that relied on human skills, such as art, creativity, and
social interaction.

Despite the challenges we faced as a society, we remained hopeful for the
future. With the help of AI and automation, we could feed a growing global
population while protecting the planet for future generations. And for us
farmers, the future was brighter than ever before. We looked forward to a world
where innovation and technology worked hand in hand with human ingenuity to
create a better future for all.
