title="Mahabharat - Episode 34 & 35 - Draupadi's Swayamvar"
date="2023-04-01"
description="Pandavs attend the swayamvar of princess Draupadi, the daughter of king Drupad."
+++

#### Bakasur Vadh
> Vartmaan bhagya ki kokh se janm nahi leta, Vartmaan Ateet ki kokh se janm leta hai.

#### Synopsis 
King Drupad hosts a swayamvar for his daughter, Princess Draupadi, and the
Pandavs attend in disguise. The suitors must demonstrate their skill by
shooting the eye of a rotating fish on the ceiling while looking at its
reflection in the water below.

Multiple princes, including Duryodhan and Jarasandh, fail to even pick up the
heavy bow, but Karna is able to pick it up. On instructions from Shri Krishna,
Draupadi denies Karna's claim, citing that he is not a Kshatriya. Karna feels
insulted and decides to opt out. In the end, Arjun, disguised as a Brahmin,
passes the challenge and wins Draupadi's hand in marriage.

By a strange turn of events, she now has to marry all five Pandavs at once.
News of the Pandavs being alive is spread by Vidur, eventually reaching the
Shakuni gang. Dhritrashtra prepares to welcome the Pandavs and Draupadi.

#### Discussion 
I have merged the two episodes in one since the first one involves a
cliffhanger and is not very fleshed out in terms of content.

This episode introduces one of the most titular characters of Mahabharat:
Draupadi. Draupadi, the daughter of King Drupad or Panchali the princess of
Panchal. She is such a complicated and well-written character that an entire
book has been written which depicts the Mahabharat from her perspective. She
has suffered a lot in the story, and she is also the cause of many battles.
This episode goes into the backstory of Draupadi, king Drupad and Dronacharya
himself. When king Drupad and Dronacharya were little, Drupad joked that when
he becomes king he will give Drona half of his kingdom. Drona took this literally
and came for his half when Drupad was crowned king. Drupad refused and insulted
Drona, sowing the seed of revenge in Drona's heart. Drona then went on to teach
the kuru princes and in *guru dakshina* asked the princes to get the kingdom of
king Drupad. The Pandavs were able to provide this easily by defeating Drupad.
Drupad was then insulted by Drona who gave him half the kingdom, like they
talked about years ago. Drupad swore revenge and dreamt of a son who will kill
Drona. He performs a Yagna which blesses him with a grown son and a daughter ~
Drishtadyumna and Draupadi. This is how Draupadi was born.

Coming to the present, the pandavs decide to attend the swayamvar of Draupadi.
This episode was delight to watch because we get to see Shri Krishna and
Balram's playful banter again. 

When all the princes fail to pick up the bow and Karna accomplishes the
impossible, it seems like the episode will take an entirely different turn.
Shri Krishna does not let that happen and signals Draupadi to do something. She
cleverly insults Karna by bringing up his *soot-putra* status like many before
her did, and once again a *veer* is denied his glory because of his caste. I
feel sympathy for Karna but I also understand that what happened to him needed
to happen for the victory of Dharma. He was siding with *adharma* and what was
done to him needed to be done. Or did it? This is not a black and white story
and all the characters have their flaws. Shri Ram was called *maryaada
purushottam*, but not Shri Krishna. That is because he had to cross many limits
to get to the end goal of the victory of *dharma*. Means to an end, I guess.

Once Karna is disqualified, Arjun disguised as a brahmin takes aim and ends the
episode on a cliffhanger. I really wouldn't think of this as a cliffhanger
because there is no way that the fisheye won't be shot through when the shooter
is Arjun. After he wins her hand, the other princes present at the swayamvar
put an ultimatum. Either Draupadi marries one of them, or they burn her.
Typical insecure males. Bhim, who was there to look out for Arjun protects them
and they leave peacefully. Tiny tidbit: Karna is still honorable even after
being insulted. When he is about to shoot at Arjun, he makes sure Arjun is
aware of it and is not shot in cold blood.

Another very well known story takes place when they get home. Arjun jokingly
says that they brought some nice *bhiksha* today, referring to his wife. Kunti,
like every day asks him to divide it equally among the brothers. This brings
everyone to a dilemma. A mother's orders are irrefutable, but her orders are
also bizarre in this case. A moment later Shri Krishna arrives and brings a
solution. This situation is the consequence of a boon that Draupadi asked from
lord Shiva in her previous life. She asked for a husband with five gunas~

* A symbol of Dharma
* Strength like Hanuman
* Archery skills like Parshuram
* The most beautiful in the world
* The most tolerant in the world

When lord Shiva told her that it is impossible to find all these in one man,
she insisted that this was what she wanted. Her boon is granted in this life,
all those five qualities were in the five pandav brothers~ Yudhishthir, Bhim,
Arjun, Nakul and Sahdev. Shri Krishna also points out the mistakes of the
Pandav household. Arjun should not have referred to his wife as
*bhiksha*(alms). A mother's orders are supreme but with that power also comes
the responsibility of thinking before giving out orders. She should not have
said anything without looking first. Now they all must repent by having her as
the wife of all five brothers.

Back in Hastinapur, everyone now knows about the Pandavs being alive and all of
them start working on their plans. Vidur manipulates Dhritrashtra into inviting
them back to Hastinapur, while Shakuni gang plots how to get them out of the
picture. Dhritrashtra is still the confused fool he is, showing that he is more
than happy to know that Pandavs are alive but feeling disappointment in the
deepest corners of his heart. From their conversation, it is made clear that at
least some part of the Hastinapur's people blame Dhritrashtra for the Pandavs
death. To clear his bad reputation, Dhritrashtra must welcome them back.

Now Hastinapur faces a challenge. It now has two *yuvraaj*s. Will it be
Yudhishthir? Who was yuvraaj before his supposed death? Or Will it be
Duryodhan, who was crowned after the Lakshyagrah incident? 

Find out, in the next episode, of Mahabharat!


#### Notable dialogue

> Rishiyon, Nadiyon aur Veeron ka gotra nahi hota Maharaj Drupad.
<!--- --->
> Pratishodh jeevan ka lakshya nahi ho sakta. 

<!--- --->
> Aashirvaad ho ya shraap, soch samaj kar dena chahiye.

<!--- --->
> Shaant rehne se bada na koi shashtra hai, na koi astra.

<!--- --->
> Guru Dronacharya, Parshuram, Indra aur Arjun ke atirikt koi Karna ka dhanush nahi tod sakta.

<!--- --->
> Aaj tumhari vaani me mandir ki ghantiyo ke swar kyun sunai de rahe hai?

<!--- --->
> Ye nirasha ka yug hai.

<!--- --->

> Duryodhan! Tum jaisa moorkh ab kadachit hi janm lega.

![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_1.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_2.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_3.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_4.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_5.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_6.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_7.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_8.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_9.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_10.webp)
![](/static/images/mahabharat/ep_34_35_11.webp)

-------------------------

#### To be continued
