title="Swipe up -- the death of long form media"
description="The "swipe-up" media format and how it will kill informational content."
date="2022-01-02"
+++
The past few years have been what some might call, _distinctively
disappointing_ for the media industry. As lives become busier and busier, it
gets hard to find time for reading an article or watching a whole documentary;
or even watching a video on how to make some novelty food item. A 30 second
tiktok on the other hand, seems much enticing, mostly because it is a thirty
second tiktok and once you start swiping up, everything is a blur. Every single
pointless video of people doing things for clout that would shame most of you
reading this, or videos of _DIY_ "hacks" that are basically just rube-goldberg
replacements of tools that can be bought at your nearest store, is a gateway
into more of that nonsense. 

On top of all this, the worst part is that this method of short attention span
media production is getting **very** popular. So much so, that nearly ALL
social media platforms have incorporated this in one way or other. I would like
to state at this point that I am in no way, a "tik-tok hater", but it is the
truth that this form of information transmission is bound to bring in some form
of misinformation. For example, take the tiktoks of financial advice making
rounds on the internet. No doubt they _might_ be people with experience and
knowledge on those subjects, but a minute long video is **not** enough to
provide sound financial advice. There are regional laws and bylaws which may or
may not be allowed in your place of residence, but the small video cannot cover
every aspect of it. Besides, these videos are a breeding ground for scams.
Scammers find their targets with short attention spans watching these and lure
them in with get-rich-quick schemes hidden among good willed financial advice.
This kind of thing is pretty prevalent these days and the topics range from
investment schemes, law and marketing, to "life hacks" which may or may not be
legal at all! The worst part is, social media giants are coercing content
creators into making more of this type of media so much that if you are content
creator and have not touched one form of "swipe-up" on your platform, your
reach will die out. Yes! To make sure that your content gets to your audience,
you have to create short-form content no matter what.

This is an endemic and while it serves its own purpose, people need to realize
that at some point it will bite them back and its best to use it as what it is:
mindless content for when you have free time. In the end, I recommend trying to
find more text based content whenever possible, as it takes time to write and
there is a pretty good chance that the author wrote it because they wanted to
and not because their platform told them to. 

_Shubh Ratri._


