title="Doing good."
description="An ode to 202x, doesn't matter which."
date="2021-12-31"
+++
I am writing this at 11:14 PM on 31st December 2021. But it doesn't really
matter what date or what time is it as long as it is a new beginning for
anyone. It is just a new page in the calendar. So this is _an ode to 202x,
doesn't matter which_.

I started this site about a year ago, and I have not written much stuff in
here, other than the Mahabharat reviews and some projects I made. So I guess,
this post will be a start of an influx of 'posts', if that makes sense. If I
had a word to describe 202x, it would be, **fast**. The days went by like
raindrops on a glass window, ever moving, ever changing. It is all a blur at
this point, truly. I wonder if it is because of the stagnancy that we all had
collectively become a part of. It has been a bad year for businesses,
especially those that are at a considerable distance from computers. People who
don't get paychecks and have to actually get out of a chair to earn their share
of money. 

It seems like every month in a 202x year brought some new depressing thing with
it-- and every next month the world fought and came back stronger. We all did,
and we did that by _doing good_. For every saddening experience I had, there
was a ray of hope somewhere. All I saw was people doing good for others,
selfless sacrifices. And maybe I choose to ignore the worst in the world, but
is it not for my own good? The further I stay away from the rot, the happier I
will be. At this point I am just rambling and it is 11:30 already, but this
post is an end and a beginning. 

I want to do good. In each and every way possible. To those who need it the
most, and are afraid to ask for it. I will try to _be good_. That is all, I
guess. I hope this year breaks the streak of the pandemic and we get to return
to normal soon. Or maybe not, I don't know. Staying at home is also heaven in
itself. Until then, stay safe, see you again.

 ~ Hitarth

